openssl.useful.command.md, before:

# CSR decode
```
openssl req -in mycsr.csr -noout -text
```
# crt decode
```
openssl x509 -in certificate.crt -text -noout
```

# Check a PKCS#12 file (.pfx or .p12)
```
openssl pkcs12 -info -in keyStore.p12 -nodes
```


# View contents of DER-encoded certificate file
```
openssl x509 -inform der -in CERTIFICATE.der -text -noout
```

# get crt from website
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${REMHOST}:${REMPORT}
```

# decode website crt
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${REMHOST}:${REMPORT} </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -text
```

# download website certificates to local PATH
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect github.com:443 </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM >  /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/github.crt
```

# download website ca and certificates to local PATH
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect github.com:443 </dev/null 2>/dev/null | sed -ne '/-BEGIN CERTIFICATE-/,/-END CERTIFICATE-/p'  >  /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/github.crt
```

# 指定 TLS 1.2 進行加密連線
```
openssl s_client -connect www.yahoo.com:443 -tls1_2
```

Commit message:

Verify the Integrity of crt and key

openssl.useful.command.md, after:

# CSR decode
```
openssl req -in mycsr.csr -noout -text
```
# crt decode
```
openssl x509 -in certificate.crt -text -noout
```

# Check a PKCS#12 file (.pfx or .p12)
```
openssl pkcs12 -info -in keyStore.p12 -nodes
```


# View contents of DER-encoded certificate file
```
openssl x509 -inform der -in CERTIFICATE.der -text -noout
```



# Verify the Integrity of crt and key
```
openssl x509 -noout -modulus -in cert.crt | openssl md5
openssl rsa -noout -modulus -in privkey.txt | openssl md5
```


# get crt from website
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${REMHOST}:${REMPORT}
```

# decode website crt
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${REMHOST}:${REMPORT} </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -text
```

# download website certificates to local PATH
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect github.com:443 </dev/null 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -outform PEM >  /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/github.crt
```

# download website ca and certificates to local PATH
```
openssl s_client -showcerts -connect github.com:443 </dev/null 2>/dev/null | sed -ne '/-BEGIN CERTIFICATE-/,/-END CERTIFICATE-/p'  >  /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/github.crt
```

# 指定 TLS 1.2 進行加密連線
```
openssl s_client -connect www.yahoo.com:443 -tls1_2
```
